"Gang" Bege's Oh My Family



Summary


After escaping from Totto Land, the Fire Tank Pirates were casually sailing the sea on their stolen Tartes ship since their original ship was destroyed. Suddenly, Chiffon declared that she wants to reunite with her long-lost twin sister, Lola, and Captain Bege immediately agreed to this. After defeating an enemy pirate crew to steal their ship, they make their way to Thriller Bark in Paradise, which was the last known location of Lola, only to be driven back from the Red Line due to the increased security at the Levely.

The Fire Tank Pirates then reach Dressrosa, where Bege decides to pick up supplies from. Upon landing at Dressrosa's West Port, they defeat two Marine soldiers and encounter a guitarist who mistakes Chiffon for Lola and congratulates her for finally finding a husband. After learning they are actually sisters, the guitarist informs the crew that Lola had arrived at Dressrosa just some days before, much to their total shock and convenience.

The crew enter the city, which still exhibits the remains of the destruction caused during the events of the Dressrosa Arc, including the ground scarred by Doflamingo's Torikago. Disguised, they started looking and asking for Lola among the citizens, with Bege finding two women whose backsides are similar to Chiffon and Lola's. Suddenly, Vito finds several men collapsed to the ground with kiss marks on them due to a vacuum-kissing spree by Kyuin. The reason for this is because the Germ Pirates, who chose to attack Dressrosa while King Riku was away, were causing chaos by spreading their "Kiss-Kiss Germ" among the citizens. Fortunately, Bege and Vito defeat them easily, but only to keep them from attracting unwanted attention from the Marines.

At the same time, however, Chiffon was just about to get a haircut at a barber shop when she is suddenly caught and arrested by a high-ranking Marine for her connection to Bege. As she screams, Gotti notices this and chases after her, but the the Marine defeats him easily. Bege and Vito were unable to help as they were under attack by citizens who were infected by the "Kiss-Kiss Germ". Hearing Chiffon's cry for help, Gotti gets back up and goes after the Marines once again. After causing an explosion with his weapon-arm to distract the Marines, Gotti manages to rescue Chiffon from her cage. Once in the clear, she thanks Gotti with a kiss while addressing him as a stranger, which confuses him. Suddenly, the real Chiffon appears along with the rest of the Fire Tank crew and the woman Gotti rescued is revealed to be Lola, and the twins tearfully embrace each other. The Risky Brothers also appear and thank the Fire Tank Pirates for rescuing their captain.

Meanwhile, the Tontatta Pirates were sailing back from the Levely when they find a Tartes ship with the injured Pound on it near the coast of Green Bit.

Back at Dressrosa, Lola asks Gotti to marry her as thanks for saving her. But before Gotti could answer, the Marines suddenly attack, forcing both the Fire Tank and Rolling Pirates to make a hasty getaway from the country. Both crews arrive at the Dressrosa port and find the Tontatta Pirates along with a patched up Pound, who Chiffon recognizes as the old man they saw when they escaped from Cacao Island. Pound, in turn, was brought to tears upon seeing both of his daughters and revealed himself to be their father, shocking the sisters. However, they refused to believe him and make their escape from the island while leaving behind Pound for the incoming Marines.

Determined to be with his daughters, Pound swims after the Fire Tank Pirates' ship amidst the cannon fire, which surprises the sisters but elates Pez. As Pound gets close to the ship, he shows the crew proof of his claims; a picture of the moment when Linlin literally kicks him out of the family, with their newborn daughters in the background. Upon seeing the photo, as well as his stubbornness, the sisters finally believe him after they recall their mother telling them that their father was a clingy person who never gives up no matter how many times he's kicked out, and they help their father onto the ship with ropes with the help of Bege and Gotti. Once onboard, a tearful Pound happily embraces both of his daughters after 26 long years.

Later on, it is revealed that Gotti accepted Lola's marriage proposal and both the Fire Tank Pirates and Rolling Pirates celebrate at their wedding. As they happily celebrate, the Fire Tank Pirates' ship sails away as a Marine ship pursues them with cannons firing, which Bege considers to be part of the celebration.

