Enies Lobby Arc



Summary


Reunited with Sanji and Sogeking (Usopp) shortly thereafter on the Rocketman, the Straw Hats, along with the Franky Family and Galley-La, began an all-out assault on the government island of Enies Lobby against thousands of Marine soldiers and the Cipher Pol agents in a last-ditch effort to rescue their friends Nico Robin and Franky before they are dragged through the Gates of Justice. The massive doors are the only thing standing between Robin and Franky and their respective destinations: Marine Headquarters and the terrifying prison of Impel Down.

While the others battled with the giants Oimo and Kashii, dog-riding guards, monstrous jurors and a three-headed judge, Luffy rushes ahead and engages the numerous Marines and Agents on the island; in spite of their numbers and numerous wrong turns, he overpowers them and eventually reaches the roof of the courthouse. Meanwhile, Spandam gloats with overconfidence until a Marine finally reports in that casualties are mounting at a horrendous rate: over 2,000 so far, with Luffy himself responsible for half that total. Furthermore, thanks to his previous contact with Dorry and Brogy, Sogeking was able to convince Oimo and Kashii to defect. For the first time, Spandam starts to panic. On the courthouse roof, Luffy encounters CP9 agent Blueno. Unlike last time, Luffy is able to keep track and match his skill. Then Luffy reveals his new Gear 2 ability, which allows him to imitate the technique Soru to great effect, enhances his body to withstand the strain while using it, and allows him to overpower Blueno's strongest Tekkai technique, ultimately knocking him out. Franky used his Coup de Boo to free himself from his chains taking Robin with him. Luffy called out to Robin and told her that he was coming for her. She replied that she didn't want to be saved and that she just wanted to die.

The others finally catch up, and as the CP9 and Straw Hats face each other, Robin's past is finally revealed, as well as her last reason for being unwilling to return to the crew: having been betrayed so many times in the past, she's terrified that one day the Straw Hats will see her as a burden, and also betray her. She screams that she would prefer death to that. The other Straw Hats quietly acknowledged the reason Robin had, then Spandam burst out laughing, saying she's absolutely accurate, and nobody would be stupid enough to think she wasn't a burden after traveling with her. Spandam pointed at the flag on top of the Tower of Justice and told Luffy that the organization after Robin is over 170 affiliated nations.

Luffy acknowledged this, then told Sogeking to shoot down the flag. Sogeking complied, utilizing his new Kabuto weapon to launch a fiery missile at the flag, setting it ablaze and shocking Spandam, Robin, and all the Marines and Agents in Enies Lobby beyond words; the Straw Hat Pirates had just declared war on the World Government. Spandam questioned Luffy's sanity, but he just bellowed back that he can take it, then tells Robin to admit that she wants to live. Unable to doubt her friends any longer after seeing them declare that her enemy is their enemy also, she tearfully begged them to take her out to sea with them.

At this point, the Franky Family finally managed to pull the levers, and the drawbridge between the courthouse and the Tower of Justice began to lower. The Straw Hats waited impatiently, while Spandam is terrified. However, Judge Baskerville ordered the personnel to fire the mortar cannon to forcibly stop the drawbridge. Paulie and Zambai attempted to stop him by cutting between his three heads, but it is revealed that they were three people in the same suit. The mortar cannon fired, stopping the drawbridge, and Spandam started to drag Robin, heading for the Gates of Justice, but Franky stopped him.

Franky, impressed by the nerve of the Straw Hats, and knowing he has misjudged Robin, revealed the blueprints that the government had been after. He explained that the architect who wrote the blueprints of Pluton thought there should not exist a weapon like this without having a weapon against it in the case of it falling into the hands of someone like Spandam. Because he figured this was the only way to satisfy the wish of the architect, Franky then burned the blueprints right in front of CP9, telling them that he is betting on the Straw Hats' victory: if they lose, and Robin is taken, the world will end; but if they win, Spandam will be left with nothing. He told Luffy that he will help him with his fight. In anger, Spandam pushed Franky over the balcony, but Kokoro contacts the Straw Hats and told them to jump into the waterfall. Luffy complied, bringing the rest of his crew with him, and they land on the Rocketman as it shoots off the half-open drawbridge. The train caught Franky on its front before plowing into the Tower of Justice.

Spandam is shocked, and immediately started to drag Robin away, heading to the Gates of Justice. Before he leaves, he tells CP9 that they have permission to massacre all of the invaders. He ordered Rob Lucci to come with him to take Robin, since he needs to be protected, then called Funkfreed, who turned into a sword. Spandam reflected that with his specially reserved sword and the CP9, he should have nothing to fear.

The Straw Hats emerged from the wreckage of the Rocketman, having suffered only minor injuries. When they head towards the stairs, they are called by Fukurou, who was in a corner of the room. He tells them that Robin is being taken to the Gates of Justice by Lucci and Spandam, and that CP9 has been given orders to eliminate them. He then showed them a key, which he explained is a key to Robin's Seastone handcuffs. After a bit of conversation amidst the Straw Hats about this, Fukurou explained that Seastone is as hard as diamond, and the handcuffs could never be removed without the key.

Luffy attempted to get it back, but Fukurou evaded with Soru. When he reappeared, he tells the crew that the key he has may or may not be the one to Robin's cuffs. He goes on to say that, including him, there are five CP9 members in the building, each with a key, and only one would release Robin's handcuffs. The Straw Hats would need to defeat all of CP9 to be sure that they had the right key. Nami suggested that they retrieve Robin first, but Fukurou threatened to throw the key into the ocean if she does. Fukurou tells them that CP9 is giving them a chance, then fled into the building.

Luffy immediately started to run after Fukurou, but Zoro and Sogeking hold him back, saying that they need to decide where they are going first. After clarifying that Lucci is "the pigeon guy", they decided to send Luffy on ahead to deal with him. Sanji stated that without Luffy, they have six people with them, and they'll need to defeat the five CP9 in the building before heading off to join Luffy. Sogeking worried that if Robin gets to the Gates of Justice, it's all over. Knowing it's a race against time, the Straw Hats rush off, with the determination to win their fights, even if they die trying. Chimney and Gonbe ran after them, wishing them luck, but then fell through a trapdoor. Kokoro, who had been drinking, wondered where they went.

Chimney and Gonbe end up in a candlelit secret passageway and heard something echoing from the other end. When they recognized it as Spandam's voice, they ran towards it. Spandam, with Lucci and Robin behind him, walked down a spiral staircase, Spandam laughing and taunting Robin all the while. Chimney and Gonbe emerged from a hidden door in the tower, then followed the group. They reached the bottom of the tower, finding a large, formidable-looking steel door with an electric lock. Spandam fumbled with the control panel for a few moments, during which Lucci noticed Chimney and Gonbe, but does nothing. The door opened, revealing a very long corridor.

Franky ran through the tower, looking for the kitchen to refill his cola supply. He finally finds it, but Fukurou blocked his way. Nami encountered Kumadori in a dungeon, and Sogeking tried a number of doors before coming across a garden where Jabra is sleeping with the key lying on the ground in front of him. Sanji runs into an apparently empty room, but Kalifa revealed herself and effortlessly seduced Sanji into taking tea with her. Zoro, swords at the ready, confronted Kaku in his study.

Luffy, finally having found the right path through the maze of staircases within the tower, arrived at the top of the Judicial Tower, but finds that Fukurou was telling the truth and Robin had already left. Spandam, explained that even if Luffy were to catch up to them, he would not know how to get across to the Gate. Kaku, claiming to be CP9's best swordsman, tested his four-sword style against Zoro. After a duel revealed them to be evenly matched, he declared Zoro a worthy opponent, and uses his newfound Devil Fruit abilities for the first time.

Meanwhile, Sogeking tried to steal the key from the sleeping Jabra without a fight. Before he can reach it, however, a rooster appeared and chirps, startling him into making noise that woke Jabra up. He recognized Sogeking as a pirate and attacks him, revealing his Devil Fruit ability: Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Wolf. The fight is then interrupted by the room's ceiling collapsing.

Zoro fell down, followed by Kaku, whose Devil Fruit gives him the form of a giraffe. However, his inexperience with his new powers caused him to accidentally transform into the full animal form rather than the hybrid. Jabra finds Kaku's new appearance very funny indeed, and they get into an argument until Zoro reminded Kaku of their fight. He subsequently changed into his hybrid form, but his appearance makes Zoro lose his focus, and made Jabra laugh even harder. Noticing their distraction, Sogeking tried to immobilize the assassins with a pair of Seastone handcuffs he finds, but only succeeded in hitting Zoro, as his aim was spoiled by laughing at Kaku. The latter, annoyed that everybody is laughing at him, lost his temper and cut the tower in half with his Rankyaku: Amane Dachi. Zoro and Sogeking avoid the attack but find themselves accidentally locked together by the Seastone handcuffs. Since Kaku and Jabra cannot decide who gets to kill their opponents while they are handcuffed together, they offered to unlock the two to avoid getting into another argument. Sadly, neither of them had the correctly numbered key, with Kaku having Number 5 and Jabra having Number 1, so they resign themselves to fighting both of them.

Meanwhile, Chopper managed to find the room where Zoro and Sogeking are fighting. They tell Chopper that he must find one of the other CP9 members and get the number 2 key. Chopper ran off, hoping that Sanji will have the right key. In the dungeon, Kumadori has Nami trapped with his hair attacks, giving her no opportunity to use her Clima-Tact.

Franky, low on cola and thus unable to use any special attacks, is forced to box with Fukurou. They compared the strength of their punches and find themselves evenly matched in strength and toughness. After three cups of tea, Sanji came to his senses and demanded Kalifa's key. She took advantage of his reluctance to hurt women and kicked him across the room.

Finally, Luffy reached the bottom of the Judicial Tower, where he can see the Gates of Justice in front of him. The only problem is that between him and the Gates is a giant whirlpool.

Nami is nearly killed by Kumadori before Chopper attacked him to rescue her, and she escaped having stolen Kumadori's key. Sanji suddenly fell from an upper story, his body terribly wounded and deformed by some unknown power into a doll-like figure. He explained his plight to Nami, who gently chastised him for his foolishness before advancing to face Kalifa herself.

At the Gates of Justice, Luffy nearly drowned trying to cross the ocean by himself, but is rescued by Gonbe and Chimney, who led him to a secret passage that Spandam had used earlier. It led to the lower areas of the tower, and eventually to an immovable steel door. Luffy broke through it with his new Gear 3. The attack was not shown, but afterwards his body is briefly shrunk to child-size.

Luffy returned to normal as he pursued Lucci and Spandam. Lucci informed his commander that they are being followed, and Spandam ordered him to wait behind to hold off any pursuit while he takes Robin to the Gates of Justice.

Meanwhile, Franky and Fukurou's battle continued into the kitchen, each one trying to punch harder than the other. As the two swapped blows and taunts, Franky began to flag due to lack of cola, but their fight was interrupted by Kumadori and Chopper, who burst in through one wall. Chopper's first Rumble Ball has worn off, so he stalled Kumadori by locking him in an enormous fridge. He joined forces with Franky, and after "accidentally" giving the cyborg the wrong drink several times, Chopper gave Franky a full cola refill. Franky, now super-charged, punched Fukurou out of the building, and their fight continued outside, taking them down into the ocean and then high above the Tower, where Franky ended the fight with his Coup de Vent cannon. Franky then grabs the Number 4 key off of Fukurou's coat pocket.

Zoro and Usopp are still handcuffed together and running from Kaku and Jabra as best they can. The two agents managed to get into another argument in the process, giving Zoro and Usopp a chance to form a plan—if Zoro cannot hold a sword with Usopp on his arm, Usopp must 'become' his sword and be used as a weapon instead. Usopp reluctantly agreed.

Back in the kitchen, Kumadori escaped from the fridge by eating his way out, and confronted Chopper, who is forced to eat another Rumble Ball in the hope of beating this powerful enemy. However, eating two Rumble Balls in such a short time made his transformations random and erratic, leaving him open to attacks. In the end even his strongest attack could not defeat Kumadori, and he fell, badly wounded.

In the moment before Kumadori finished him, he remembered the last time he took three Rumble Balls in a row, and how he woke up to hear that a monster had destroyed much of his village. His mentor Dr. Kureha had told him that the monster had been him and made him promise to never do it again. With an apology to Kureha, and hoping that his friends aren't nearby, he took a third Rumble Ball, and grew into a gigantic, terrifying monster that dwarfs Kumadori. He crushed the CP9 agent and threw him from the Tower of Justice to the main island.

In Kalifa's room, Nami's battle seemed to have ended prematurely - she lay paralyzed on the floor as Kalifa calmly took a bath. Nami, recovering her strength, tried to attack the CP9 agent, who defended herself with her newfound Devil Fruit powers - she is revealed to have eaten the Awa Awa no Mi, which allows her to create bubbles which can weaken enemies, harden into soap for defense, or transmute an enemy's body entirely (as in the case of Sanji). Having worked this out, Nami continued to fight, but is soon weakened by Kalifa's bubbles.

Down in the basement, Luffy finally caught up to Lucci, who held him at bay while Spandam escaped towards the Gates of Justice with Robin. When Robin tried to escape, Spandam attempted to summon CP9 with his ordinary Den Den Mushi but used the Golden Den Den Mushi by mistake, which summons the Buster Call, a powerful Marine fleet with orders to destroy the entire island. Realizing his mistake, Spandam contacted all the Marines stationed on the island, ordering them to report in. Meanwhile, Marine Headquarters receives the Buster Call signal on the Silver Den Den Mushi. Noting the target to be Enies Lobby, they decide to launch the fleet straight from headquarters so as to reach there within 30 minutes.

Spandam, at first panicking and not realizing that he is still on air, started to gloat that the lives of the Marines do not matter as long as he can bring Robin alive to the Gates of Justice. Robin cut in on his broadcast with a warning to the Marines. Understandably alarmed, the listening Marines evacuated the island, leaving the Franky Family and Galley-La workers behind as prisoners.

Hearing Robin's warning, Luffy tried to force his way past Lucci to reach her, but Lucci fought back fiercely and stopped him in his tracks, forcing him to continue the fight. Jabra and Kaku decided to end their fight with Zoro and Usopp quickly in order to escape the approaching bombardment.

In Kalifa's room, Nami struggled against the superior skill and powers of her opponent, who began to transmute Nami's body just like she did with Sanji. Before she can finish Nami off, however, Chopper broke into the room, still in monstrous form and totally out of control. The giant Chopper attacked Nami wildly, uprooting Kalifa's bath in the process. He threw it down the stairs to where Sanji lay unconscious below, drenching the whole area with water before storming off. The water from the bath washed away Kalifa's weakening bubbles; A splash on Nami's leg let her realize how to restore herself using Rain Tempo. She then used Mirage Tempo to confuse Kalifa before eventually defeating her with a Thunder Lance Tempo and taking her key.

Meanwhile, Chopper wandered into Zoro and Sogeking's fight, and Zoro fought to protect him from Jabra and Kaku. Franky arrived and decided that the only way to stop Chopper is to knock him into the ocean to cancel his Devil Fruit powers. He blew Chopper out of the tower with his Coup de Vent, then jumped in after to save him. Nami unlocked Zoro and Sogeking's handcuffs, allowing the real fight against Jabra and Kaku to begin.

Robin tried to escape from Spandam, but he stopped her by attacking with Funkfreed.

With Chopper back to normal, safe, and out of the water, Franky remembered that Nami told him to head towards the Gates of Justice to try Fukurou and Kumadori's keys on Robin's handcuffs, so Chimney and Gonbe showed him the way.

Zoro began to once again battle Kaku. Kaku revealed more impressive abilities through the use of his Devil Fruit, using his nose as a larger version of Shigan; the deflected blow easily cut into a boulder nearby.

Usopp tried frantically to defend himself against Jabra, but even his new Kabuto is no match for the CP9 agent's speed. Jabra caught Usopp off guard by offering him the key without a fight, but attacked Usopp at the last moment, knocking him down. With his opponent helpless, Jabra began to gloat at Usopp's weakness, but is cut short by the sudden arrival of Sanji, returned to his normal self by the falling water from Kalifa's bath. He distracted Jabra and told the wounded Usopp to help any way he can.

Outside, the Sea Train departed, filled to capacity with escaping Marines. Meanwhile, Paulie (who used his rope skills to pretend he was bound) managed to untie the other captives, and they tried to find an alternative way off the island.

Fighting Sanji on the tower's high landing, Jabra revealed his Tekkai Kenpo - a fighting style which allows him to move and fight while using Tekkai, making him all but immune to Sanji's kicks. Suddenly Jabra stopped the fight, tearfully offering Sanji his key and telling him that Robin is really his long-lost sister. Sanji ignored the deception and continued the fight.

Meanwhile, Usopp, high above on the tower, came up with a plan.

To combat Jabra's impenetrable Tekkai, Sanji creates a new technique, Diable Jambe, where he heats up one foot with friction, resulting in powerful kicks that burn through his enemy's defense. He kicked Jabra all the way down to the ground floor, defeating him.

Meanwhile, Spandam dragged Nico Robin across the Bridge of Hesitation, a long bridge that leads to the Gates of Justice. Franky caught up to Luffy and Lucci and asks Luffy if he needed help. Luffy snapped at him, telling not to interfere. He told Franky to take the keys and head to where Robin is, behind the door Lucci is guarding.

Zoro and Kaku continued their duel, with Kaku using his Devil Fruit power to gain the upper hand, wounding Zoro with a rain of Rankyaku attacks. Zoro stalled Kaku by mocking his voice. Angry now, and experimenting wildly with his transformations, Kaku changed to a more powerful form, which removes his long neck while lengthening his arms and legs. Combined with larger swords he retrieved, Kaku gained the upper hand and mocked Zoro's attempt to rescue Robin.

This angered Zoro, prompting him to unleash a new mysterious technique, Nine Sword Style, which made him appear like an Asura deity; three faces plus six arms meant nine swords total. Realizing the danger, Kaku prepared his finishing blow, the powerful Rankyaku attack that sliced the tower in half. Zoro countered with Asura: Ichibugin, which was so powerful it negated Kaku's Rankyaku and finally incapacitated the CP9 agent. In the end, Zoro delivers Paulie's message of termination, and the downed Kaku freely gave Zoro his key and even shared a joke with the man who defeated him. At this moment, Sanji catches up to Zoro and learns the last key is now theirs.

Robin admitted she is afraid of death, and tried to escape, even biting down on the bridge to stall for time. At the same time, she insisted in her mind that the crew will be coming to save her.

Luffy is unable to hurt Lucci, who hit him with a rapid-fire Shigan. Franky comes to Luffy's aid by trying to hit Lucci with the same move he used against Fukurou. Franky's move is unsuccessful against Lucci's much-stronger Tekkai, and Lucci prepared to strike Franky. Luffy used his Gear 2 ability and knocked Lucci away. Franky was astonished by Luffy's strength and power, and encouraged him to defeat Lucci. Luffy manages to keep the now transformed Lucci at bay and allowed Franky to leave the room to chase after Spandam and Robin.

On the bridge, Spandam dragged Robin by a rope, gloating that no one will ever reach her because he set up landmines behind them. He then explained that his father, Spandine, was the one who led the destruction of Ohara, which infuriated Robin. There is an explosion as Franky triggered the landmines and is blown into the water, and Spandam laughed that no one will save Robin.

Spandam is suddenly hit in the head by a missile, and the Marines waiting to transport the prisoner are also attacked. Sogeking had fired the shots from the top of the Tower of Justice, a distance that none of the Marines could hit with any weapon and none could see without binoculars.

Robin escaped and the Marines fired at her, but Franky jumped in the way to block the bullets (the landmines had only delayed him). Sogeking shot Zoro and Sanji's keys to Franky, leaving him with all of the keys to use on Robin's cuffs (the Number 5 key was the right one). Spandam is shocked that CP9 was defeated. With all the keys in hand, Franky eventually unlocks Robin's Seastone cuffs. Robin thanks Sogeking but he replied that she should save the thanks until later. Sogeking also tells Robin that she is now free to do whatever she wants, and Robin made her decision. Using her Devil Fruit abilities she attacked Spandam.

The celebration is cut short when the Buster Call arrived, and the top of the Judicial Tower is blown up. The defensive fence surrounding Enies Lobby is also destroyed. Franky shouted out that this is their last chance to escape, as there is an escort ship at the end of the bridge. In the tunnels beneath the towers, Nami, Kokoro (carrying Chopper on her head), Chimney and Gonbe continued their escape.

The battle with Luffy and Lucci raged on. Luffy is able to land an attack on Lucci, who is forced back with pain. Lucci then explained to Luffy that his Gear 2 ability is wearing his body away and shortening his life span by pumping blood into his legs, causing his blood-flow to speed up. Luffy yelled back that he does not care and wishes to save his comrades first. So Lucci raised the stakes and used a Rankyaku to smash a wall, causing water to flow into the tower and the tunnel system below; anyone in it (namely any of Luffy's comrades trying to catch up to him) will drown.

Spandam ordered the Marines to take back Robin, but the Marines stopped as they see the Buster Call approaching. The Buster Call is now upon Enies Lobby and is about to destroy everything. The fleet appears along with the five Vice Admirals.

The Buster Call Marines explain that they can destroy everything but the bridge on Enies Lobby, because Robin is standing there, although Spandam thinks it is because of his presence. It is revealed that during the last Buster Call, everything on Ohara was destroyed except for the ground where Spandine was standing.

The Franky Family continued to rush to the Gates of Justice; meanwhile, Sogeking (blown off from the attack on the tower) falls to where Sanji and Zoro are located. They tried to get Sogeking to leave, but he is slowed by injuries. He tried to explain the properties of Kabuto, but is cut off by Sanji. Nami, Chopper, Kokoro, Chimney, and Gonbe are under the room where Lucci and Luffy are fighting, which is also filling up with water.

Having exhausted himself, Luffy is attacked fiercely by Lucci, who taunted that he thought Luffy was stronger. So Luffy unleashes Gear 3, briefly explaining how it works. His arm then swelled to massive proportions, and he attacked Lucci with a Gomu Gomu no Gigant Pistol, sending him flying through the wall and toward the sea.

A Marine asked Vice Admiral Doberman how to handle the capture of Nico Robin. The Vice Admiral ordered him to ignore her and began to explain about Lucci's past.

15 years ago, an incident happened where 500 soldiers were captured on an island by pirates. The pirate’s captain wanted to become the king of the island in return for sparing the soldiers' lives. Just as the island was about to fall, the World Government sent a boy to the island. The boy infiltrated the pirate's hideout and killed the 500 soldiers on the spot. The pirates, infuriated, began to shoot at the boy. The boy emerged from the explosions, killed the pirate's captain and ended the incident. That boy, at the age of 13, became a member of CP9, and has become the strongest killing machine since CP9’s inception.

The Marines, upon hearing the story, became frightened. The Vice Admiral tells the Marines that as long as that man is here assisting in the recapture of Nico Robin, they do not need to act, and will do nothing until all but the Bridge of Hesitation is destroyed. In the tunnels, Zoro, Sanji and Sogeking heard the sound of water, and see Nami, Kokoro (with Chopper on her hat), Chimney, and Gonbe running away from the rushing water. The water began to fill up the passage, engulfing them all.

Lucci, after receiving a Gear 3 attack, is knocked out, and landed on one of the Marine's ships. After recovering, Lucci returns to human form and takes off his shirt, showing scars on his back similar to the World Government's symbol. Luffy inhaled deeply and then attacked the ship. The Marines fired at him, but Luffy was unaffected.

Luffy resumed his fight with Lucci, attacking with a Gomu Gomu no Gigant Axe, but Lucci managed to dodge it. He turned into his complete animal form and bit Luffy. Luffy escaped by expanding his body, while Lucci returned to his human form. Luffy tried to hit Lucci with a Gomu Gomu no Gigant Whip, but Lucci dodged it as the attack destroyed the mast of the ship. Lucci fired a Tobu Shigan Bachi and hit Luffy, and deduced that Luffy's speed decreases as his strength increases. The ship starts to split while Lucci laughed boldly.

Vice Admiral Onigumo noted Lucci and Luffy fighting and ordered the fleet to target the ship they are on. He explained that if it's Lucci, then he will survive. A Marine objected to the idea, saying that 1,000 Marines are aboard the ship. The Vice Admiral killed the Marine on the spot, asking if he can protect the future from a criminal with his weakness. The ships begin firing, and the ship that Luffy and Lucci is on is hit. Luffy escaped the bombardment, returning to the tower. However, when he lands, he is shrunk from the side effects of Gear 3. He then hid from Lucci until he could return to normal size.

Spandam mocked the pirate, thinking Luffy died in the attack, and continued to brag about the Buster Call until Franky punched him in the face. Angry, Spandam tried to attack Robin with Funkfreed in elephant form, but is stopped by Franky, who threw the animal back right on top of Spandam.

Lucci found Luffy and began to attack him. However, right before Lucci could strike the finishing blow, the damage from the Gear 3 attack starts to hurt. As he struggled with the pain, Luffy returned to normal. In the tunnels, Zoro and the others slowly drown. As they neared death, Kokoro saved them all by revealing her true identity as a mermaid.

Robin and Franky hijacked Spandam's escape ship, and Kokoro soon arrived, jumping into the ship with the unconscious Straw Hat crew. Robin and Franky thank her as she changed back into a human and their friends woke up, but they realized they still need to wait for Luffy.

Meanwhile, Oimo and Kashii, who had been carrying Zambai, Mozu and Kiwi, the rest of the Franky Family, Paulie, Lulu, Tilestone, Sodom, Gomorrah, and Yokozuna out of the path of the Buster Call, finally reached the exit of Enies Lobby. However, they are attacked by three Buster Call ships; hit by cannon fire, the Straw Hats' allies tumbled into the waterfall below.

Luffy, still having trouble with Lucci, used Gear 2 once more to even the odds. The Straw Hats and Franky continued to wait on the ship for Luffy. They heard an announcement from the Buster Call ships about the apparent deaths of their allies, leaving everyone, especially Franky, shocked. The group then discuss Luffy's fight with Lucci, claiming that Luffy always seems to know exactly which opponent he has to fight so they aren't overwhelmed.

Back at the battle, Lucci hits Luffy with the most powerful Rokushiki technique he knows, damaging Luffy heavily. However, it only leaves Luffy more determined than ever to defeat Lucci. Meanwhile, the Buster Call ships realized that Rob Lucci and Luffy are in the tower, so they destroyed half the bridge and isolated the tower. The fleet aimed at where the rest of the crew were waiting, to capture Nico Robin and Zoro and the rest of the crew. The crew get ready to fight back so that Robin will not be recaptured. The Marines are astonished by the crew, noting that one pirate crew was able to take down Enies Lobby and CP9.

Sogeking spotted Luffy and Lucci in the tower and called out to the pirate. Franky, Sogeking, Zoro, and Sanji, who are on the bridge, cheered him on. Newly motivated, Luffy prepares to fight Lucci again. Lucci, upon seeing the crew, remarked that it was quite the crew, but that evil cannot win.

As the fight of Luffy and Lucci continued, the Buster Call ships announced that 200 Captains and Lieutenants will finish off the crew and recapture Nico Robin. As the pirates get ready to fight back, they realized that Sanji has gone missing. Nami exclaimed that they need to get off the ship as Chopper finds himself unable to move. On the bridge, Franky, Sogeking, and Zoro took on the Captains and Lieutenants, as Franky noticed that there are Devil Fruit users among them, making the fight more difficult. Zoro's sword Yubashiri is broken during this fight. Robin and Nami fought off the Marines that attacked the ship.

Meanwhile, in the battle against Lucci, Luffy began to struggle as the effects of his Gear 2 begin to show. Lucci taunts him that no matter how hard Luffy struggles, in the end, Luffy cannot take down Enies Lobby. Luffy attacked, but Lucci dodged his attack and landed another devastating Rokuougan. Luffy fell to the ground and attempting briefly to stand before collapsing in a pool of his own blood.

On the bridge, while fending off the attackers, Sogeking see Luffy's fall and froze. He finally takes off his mask and cried out for Luffy. Usopp encouraged Luffy to get up and to stop looking so defeated. Usopp tells Luffy that he came to save Robin, not to see Luffy being beaten up, and then challenged Lucci to a fight. Luffy stopped him, knowing that Usopp will be killed almost instantly. Now more determined than ever, Luffy got up again to fight,

Despite being attacked again and again by Lucci, Luffy still fought back. Lucci hit Luffy with another Rokuougan, but this time, Luffy does not fall. Using everything he has left, Luffy bombards Lucci with an all-out Gomu Gomu no Jet Gatling, crushing him through the tower wall and finally defeating him. After the Marines and the crew witness Lucci's defeat, Luffy fell to the floor, exhausted but triumphant. Luffy then calls out to Robin that they are going back together, causing her to tearfully smile.

The Marines are shocked at the loss of Rob Lucci, whom they considered to be the strongest in all of CP9's history. Usopp, Franky, and the rest of the crew, letting out a sigh of relief, began to congratulate Luffy and his victory.

Suddenly, a Den Den Mushi from somewhere transmitted a mysterious voice, which also congratulated Luffy. Knowing that they are being heard by everybody, they reveal themselves to be the Franky Family, Galley-La shipwrights, Yokozuna, Oimo and Kāshī, dangling by Paulie's rope. They explain that the giants took all the shots for them, and that they are all safe. All of them begin climbing the rope, as Franky starts crying. Wiping the last of his tears, he yelled defiance at the Marines.

The Marines then realize that Luffy is seriously fatigued and has not been able to move, much to the crew's shock. Usopp encouraged Luffy again to move, but the latter cannot move at all. The Marines now noticed that the pirates are escaping through the escort ship, fire at it, and destroy the ship. The crew, realizing that Kokoro, Chimney, Gonbe and Chopper are still there, watched in horror as the ship starts sinking.

Suddenly, Sanji appeared, carrying all four of them. A Marine tries to capture Nami, but Kokoro knocked him out with a kick. The Buster Call ships start firing at Zoro and the others as they run from the explosions. The ships prepared to fire at Luffy in the tower. Robin tells everyone that, at this distance, even if she tried to pull him out of there, Luffy would just fall in the water. The crew begins to shout at Luffy, saying that he needs to get up.

As the rest of them shout at Luffy, Usopp noticed another voice. Franky yells at him that it is his family, but Usopp insisted that it is a different voice: one he recognizes. Luffy also heard the voice, hearing someone tell him to look below. The rest of the crew start hearing the mysterious voice, as the Marines starts the countdown. Usopp urged them to jump to the sea, asking Robin to help move Luffy.

Zoro says that it will kill him, but Usopp says that they still have a friend among them, which left Zoro speechless. Two seconds remain in the countdown as Robin moved Luffy towards the sea. Chopper started to cry as he sees a familiar figure, coming up from the water. Sanji, Nami, and Chopper cry as Going Merry arrives, telling them to return to the "sea of adventure".

Kokoro threw Chopper, Robin, and Luffy onto the Going Merry before boarding herself. Spandam returned, broken and bruised from being hit with Funkfreed, and orders the Marines to open fire on Merry, falsely claiming to have permission from Admiral Aokiji. Two Buster Call ships fired, only to get caught up in a strong current and hit each other. Sanji, during his absence, had started to close the Gates of Justice, causing the whirlpool currents to return. As Nami used the current to elude the battleships, more shots are fired, which Zoro and Sanji deflected by using Luffy as a sling. Spandam yelled more orders, but Robin used her powers to break his spine. Finally, Franky used the Coup de Vent to catapult ship and all out of danger.

At the front of the island, the Franky Family, Galley-La, giants, King Bulls, and Yokozuna commandeered the Puffing Tom and return to Water 7. Aokiji arrived on the scene and declared that with the island in ruins there's no way they can depict Enies Lobby as anything but a "complete defeat" for the World Government. The reunited Straw Hat Pirates leave the chaos of the Buster Call behind and sailed out of Enies Lobby. Sometime later, they see a Galley-La ship with Iceburg and his shipwrights in it. However, their joy is short-lived as Merry's hull finally gave out and splits in two.

Luffy pleaded with Iceburg to fix the ship up one last time, but Iceburg cannot; he'd already done what he could. As he saw the ship laying on Scrap Island (after having been dumped from Franky's lair by CP9), he too heard the voice of the ship and decided to grant its request to sail once again; the ship was then carried off by the waves of Aqua Laguna and sailed off on its own. He declared what he saw before him as a miracle: a ship so loved by its crew that it went beyond its limits to save them one last time; he praised ship and crew for such extraordinary loyalty. Luffy comes to realize what Iceburg is saying and understands what has to be done. After moving to Iceburg's ship, Luffy and the rest of his crew give Merry a viking funeral, setting her ablaze for her final voyage. As the crew lament the funeral of their ship, they each hear the soul of Merry, thanking them for taking good care of her. Though Luffy argued that her damage was their fault, Merry says that she was happy, with her only regret that she could not continue their voyage with them. As the ship starts to burn away, the crew mourn their friend, as Merry once more thanks them for a wonderful life.

Story Impact


- With the exception of Robin, each of the Straw Hats developed/revealed new special abilities in this arc, marking an exponential increase in power for each of them.
	- Luffy introduces both Gear 2 and Gear 3.
	- Zoro develops Nine Sword Style.
	- Sanji unleashes Diable Jambe.
	- Chopper utilizes Monster Point (on screen/panel) for the first time whilst showing other effects from excess Rumble Ball consumption.
	- Nami displays Usopp's latest creation, the Perfect Clima-Tact.
	- Sogeking demonstrates his new slingshot - Kabuto.
	- The remainder of Franky's Cyborg Tactics are revealed, especially and comically his dependency on cola.
- The development of Nami and Sogeking in particular are significant as they become serious fighters in their own right: Nami being able to defeat a member of CP9 and help hold off an onrush of Buster Call Marines, Sogeking demonstrating sniping skills so extraordinary Marines admit their inability to fight back.
- New information about Devil Fruits is revealed during this arc by the members of CP9. They revealed that if a person ate more than one Devil Fruit, then the two 'devils' that are said to live inside the user would kill them. However, Marshall D. Teach used an unknown method during the Marineford Arc to be able to use not only the Yami Yami no Mi, but Whitebeard's Gura Gura no Mi after killing him.
- When Marine Headquarters received the Buster Call, they reached Enies Lobby in 30 minutes. It was revealed to be due to the Tarai Current that is caused by the Gates of Justice redirecting water currents. This is further explained in the Amazon Lily Arc and Impel Down Arc.
- Robin's past which was foreshadowed since the Arabasta Arc is finally revealed, as well as more of the Void Century, and at the same time, the history of the World Government.
	- There once existed an Ancient Kingdom defeated by its enemies, attributed to be the World Government, indicating that it is more ruthless than it seems.
	- While undertones of corruption and oppression have been shown in the World Government and the Marines from the beginning, from this arc onward, the World Government's malevolent insinuations are now seen as the norm rather than the exception.
	- The scholars of Ohara threw their books out the window into the lake, hoping to save them from being destroyed by the World Government. It will be later revealed in the Egghead Arc that these books are currently in Elbaf and were actually saved by giants led by their bandaged captain.
	- This evil image becomes the bridge to introducing Dragon and the Revolutionary Army in the following arc.
- Franky helps the Straw Hat Pirates for the first time leading to him becoming a major asset for them later when he joins the crew.
- Shu destroys Yubashiri leading Zoro to obtain Shusui during the Thriller Bark Arc.
- The entire Straw Hat crew are now considered a threat to the World Government due to their declaration of war, and everyone now has bounties. Zoro joins Luffy as a Supernova as his bounty is doubled, and Luffy's bounty is tripled, placing his in the realm of the former bounties of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. Robin's bounty is raised minimally mainly as a means to get her picture updated, Usopp's poster has him listed under his alias Sogeking. Even Chopper gets a bounty, although it is tiny as he is mistaken for a pet. Sanji never had his picture taken, and the artist's rendering looks nothing like him. This consistency continues even when Franky joins the crew; he also earned a bounty for his actions.
- At the end of this arc, the Going Merry finally reaches her absolute limit, and is given a Viking funeral. This forced the Straw Hat Pirates to get a new ship, which turned out to be the Thousand Sunny, made by Franky.
- With CP9 defeated by the Straw Hats at the end of this arc, they would become fugitives of the World Government because Spandam blamed them for the annihilation of Enies Lobby. As such, they later become a renegade crew hunting their former superior thus foreshadowing their return in the future.
