Germa 66's Ahh... An Emotionless Excursion



Summary


In the beginning of the story, it is shown that the Germa Kingdom had managed to escape from Totto Land. Following this, Vinsmoke Judge and two of his children, Reiju and Ichiji are seen looking over a balcony, with Judge himself sighing.

Unfortunately, his two other sons, Niji and Yonji had been captured by the Big Mom Pirates and were imprisoned in a book by Mont-d'Or's ability back on Cacao Island and put on display for the crew and citizenry to look at. As they are restrained, the brothers recall how they were easily defeated by Big Mom herself. Suddenly, they are both punched in the face by Pudding for having been so cruel to their brother, Sanji. She then leaves in a huff while Oven, who was wondering about Pudding's actions, carries the book with the brothers inside through a mirror with Brûlée using her powers. After passing through Mirro-World, Oven and Brûlée end up back on Whole Cake Island, with its fallen chateau in full view. Oven then drops off the book at a laboratory, where Kato, Brownie, Prim and Anana are prepared to dissect the brothers to learn about their modifications.

However, back at Chocolat Town, two silhouettes appear and scare away the townsfolk, except for Choco Police, though he is surprised by their presence. Brûlée, who was with a still recovering Cracker, learns of this and states her belief that Vinsmoke Reiju and Ichiji have returned to rescue the other Vinsmokes while preparing to travel back there via mirror. But while this is happening, the book that the Vinsmoke brothers were trapped in suddenly catches on fire, freeing them. Ichiji and Reiju also burst through the wall and defeat the Charlotte siblings in order to rescue their own. Having reunited, the Vinsmokes then walk out as the facility goes up in flames.

As she continues to walk with her brothers, Reiju suspects someone else is around the corridor, who is in fact Caesar Clown, who failed to escape Whole Cake Island. Suddenly, both Oven and Katakuri appear and attack the Vinsmokes, but Caesar moves in and shrouds everyone with a hallucinatory gas. He then begs for the Vinsmokes to take him with them while the Charlotte brothers inadvertently fight each other due to the effect of the gas they were in. The Vinsmokes apparently agree to this and they all fly away from the fallen castle together.

Meanwhile, Chocolat Town and its residents are all completely frozen in ice. As Cracker lays on the ground defeated while also frozen, Brûlée wallows in tears that Pudding had been kidnapped by the invaders, who turn out to be Kuzan and Van Augur of the Blackbeard Pirates.

The Vinsmoke siblings return to the Germa Kingdom along with Caesar. When they return, though, Caesar and Judge start fighting, and as they fought, they reminiscence their earlier days in MADS. As it turns out, MADS was supposedly a charitable lab dedicated to peace and was sponsored by Du Feld. It was led by Dr. Vegapunk himself and also consisted of Caesar, Judge, Queen and an unknown woman. However, Caesar, Queen and Judge focused their efforts into creating weapons of mass destruction and carnage, with Caesar having created what could possibly be an artificial Devil Fruit. Unfortunately for them, the world was far more interested in Vegapunk's peaceful inventions, such as an artificial breed of flower that grew in gunpowder, which he received an award for. Ever since then, the three evil men began getting into fights between each other over who would be the second-best scientist of the organization, which apparently lasted for years, while Vegapunk is granted an audience with the Five Elders in Mary Geoise.

In the present, Caesar and Judge stop fighting after simultaneously coming to the conclusion that it was actually Vegapunk who got in their way of their progress. Thus, they decide to bury their grudge and form a new group called "NEO MADS" as a successor to the original MADS. The Germa soldiers celebrate the founding of this new organization while Ichiji and Reiju leave in a huff.

