Jango's Dance Paradise



Long Summary


Jango wakes up after being knocked out by the Usopp Pirates, and runs back to the Black Cat Pirates' ship, only to find it sailing away. Jango then heads into Syrup Village to get a bite to eat, only to be spotted and chased out of town by the Usopp Pirates. Jango quicky sails away from the island, and while sailing, happens to pass by a recently escaped Morgan.

On a side note, Kaya is taking to medical practice well, being accompanied everywhere by the Usopp Pirates.

Meanwhile, Jango lands on Mirror Ball Island, the East Blue's trendiest city. However, the Marines happen to be on the island, carrying around a wanted poster of him. Jango changes out of his normal clothes and puts on a disguise, taking off his glasses in the process and revealing his heart-shaped eyes. After disguising himself, Jango sees a dance contest, and without thinking joins it. Eventually, he reaches the finals, competing against an unknown man. The crowd is awed at the two's flawless dancing, and Jango narrowly beats the man, getting the first-place trophy. 
After the contest, Jango and the man begin to bond, when the Marines discover Jango's old clothes. Not realizing that Jango is right in front of them, the Marines continue searching.

Suddenly, Captain Yurikah and the Tulip Pirates come and attack the island. Jango takes advantage of the ensuing chaos to make his escape while the man, revealing himself to be the Marine Fullbody, beats up the Tulip Pirates. As Jango sails away from the island, the Tulip Pirates stop Fullbody by taking a girl from the island hostage. However, as Yurikah prepares to kill Fullbody, Jango returns to the island to protect his friend. Fullbody and the now undisguised Jango then beat up the Tulip Pirates, and do a victory dance when they finish. However, Fullbody arrests Jango, as it is his duty.

At the Marine Headquarters, Jango is sentenced to hanging. However, Fullbody intervenes, begging for a pardon for his friend. Fullbody's plea dance sways the court, and Jango is acquitted, though Fullbody is demoted. After the trial, Jango departs, as a pirate and a Marine cannot be friends. Jango tries to hypnotize Fullbody into forgetting about their friendship, but stops when they notice a hot Marine officer walk by. Jango is then allowed to join the Marines, and he and Fullbody, now mop boys, start a dance-off with the Marines on board the ship, as Koby, Helmeppo, and Garp walk by.

