Solo Journey of Jinbe, Knight of the Sea



Long Summary


After leaving Caribou at the G-5 base, Jinbe journeys through the ocean in search of his crew. Many fish, sharks, sea turtles, jellyfish, squids, and other creatures follow after him, apparently happy to see him. Shortly afterwards, a sea kitten comes up beside him in tears due to being lost. Feeling sorry for the little thing, Jinbe takes the sea kitten to a sea dog sheriff for help. Shortly afterwards, the officer realizes that he lives in the same town as the sea kitten, and the sea dog leads the way for Jinbe and the sea kitten, making it happy. However, when they arrive, the town appears to have completely disappeared, which causes the sea kitten to start crying again.

During their search, the sea dog officer finds his house alone, which has somehow been flipped sideways. As Jinbe ponders on the situation as the sea kitten continues to weep, they both discover a sinking ship up on the surface. Luckily, Jinbe manages to push it back up, much to the relief of the passengers on board. He then receives a newspaper from the grateful passengers and is surprised when he reads the news of the Straw Hats and Heart Pirates alliance, and is then stunned again when he reads an article stating that various giant sea beasts were attacking a nearby port town, which prompts him to investigate.

Upon arriving at the port town, Jinbe discovers some old ruins, which the sea kitten reveals was remnants of its' home. Upon landing on the island, the locals explain to him their dire situation: the ruins started appearing and wrecking their town while the sea beasts also started attacking ships as offerings to them disappeared. Jinbe goes along with a local to see a large amount of offerings missing from their designated spot, which deepens the mystery. Almost immediately after, both the sea dog officer and his home fall onto the ruins, much to Jinbe's shock. He spots a shadow retreating back into the ocean and realizes that the culprit is definitely underwater, so he gives chase. Before long, he finds all the lost offerings as well as the thief, who turns out to be none other than Wadatsumi posing as a sea god.

The gigantic fish-man reveals that after getting beaten up by the Straw Hat crew and exiled from Fish-Man Island, he found the offerings the people left for the sea beasts and helped himself to them. Out of gratitude, Wadatsumi started picking up the undersea ruins and throwing them into the port town, believing that the houses rightfully belonged to the humans. Angry at Wadatsumi's actions, Jinbe gives him a good scolding for his carelessness. He then goes to the Sea Beasts, who reveal that they woke up to find their homes gone and relocated to the port town, causing them to assume that the humans stole their homes on purpose, which is why they started attacking their ships. Jinbe reveals to them what truly happened, and thus the Sea Beasts and Wadatsumi apologize to the townsfolk who were livid at them for what they've done. At the same time, the sea-kitten is reunited with its parent, and Jinbe is relieved that everything has been resolved.

The townsfolk reveal that they also found a poneglyph and give it to Jinbe as thanks for his help, which surprises him. It's also shown that the ruins were placed back underwater near the town's harbor, allowing the Sea Beasts to slumber peacefully again. In addition, the Sea Beasts allow the humans to ride atop their backs as fishing vessels. That night, the townsfolk host a great banquet with Wadatsumi and the sea monsters in attendance.

The following day, Wadatsumi asks Jinbe if he could go with him on his journey. Jinbe agrees, and with a new kimono for Jinbe and the poneglyph, the two set sail, waving goodbye to the townsfolk and the Sea Beasts.

