Wapol's Omnivorous Hurrah



Long Summary


On an unknown island, the landscape had been marred, as if someone had took huge bites out of it. That person is revealed to be Wapol, who landed there after being sent flying by Luffy from Drum Island and regained his original figure after eating so much. He surprises a local man by sporting a tree head after eating one. Then he eats a gas lamp, annoying the nocturnal animals at night, and then a bench, scaring away unsuspecting people trying to sit on him. Finally, Wapol snaps and starts eating an entire town for dessert, which results in his arrest by the Marines.

Meanwhile, back on Drum Island, Dalton becomes the new king, with the kingdom being renamed as the Sakura Kingdom.

Wapol manages to escape arrest and ends up in a dump with a dog named Hakowan that constantly pees on him. Upon which, he sadly realizes that his days as a privileged king were officially over. During the cold season, Wapol tries to make money by selling matches to people, but nobody wanted to get near him. To curb his hunger and sorrow, Wapol begins eating broken toys under a bridge. However, while munching on the junk, he ends up using his Baku Baku Factory technique to combine the toy parts into new, bigger toys. He also ends up eating Hakowan too, turning his head into a box with lens for eyes. The island children see and fall in love with Wapol's new toy creations, so he began selling them for a profit. He eventually makes enough money to build his own toy booth, which booms in popularity. Hakowan also apparently becomes his pet, who constantly follows him.

One of the children brings his new toy and shows it to his scientist father, who discovers that the toy is made out of an unidentified, powerful alloy. Wapol was then thrust into the limelight for this invention, which he dubbed "Wapometal." With this new metal, Wapol became rich enough to build massive toy shop, and then an entire factory, and even an entire conglomerate. He then ends up marrying a beautiful and apparently well-known woman by the name of Kinderella, otherwise known as “Miss Universe”. With Kinderella and Hakowan at his side, Wapol revels at the fact that he had become more rich and powerful than he ever was as a king.

